Sense-Drive
Arduino Code & Motor driver board by PatrickPro

What is it?

Sense-Drive is a haptic interface that is integrated into a car’s center console and its armrest. 
It is designed to give on demand feedback if the driver places one hand on top. 
To make it convenient for usage Sense-Drive has around and ergonomic shape.
The core functions can be split into two parts. 
First, Sense-Touch provides vibration feedback in unpredictable or dangerous situations, 
e.g. if there are any obstacles around the car and also at dangerous and unpredictable crossings, 
it helps the driver to decide whether to turn in at the crossing or whether to wait for a hidden and passing car. 
The driver can even distinguish between the directions of a warning. 
Our prototype consists of six vibration segments for direction feedback from front left, front right, left, right, rear left and/or rear right. 
The second part of Sense-Touch is a clear and palpable driving mode feedback. 
There are two additional segments for this purpose in the front and back. 
Depending on the mode the front segment or the back segment moves out of the round shape. 
The spatial arrangement of these segments makes it easy and intuitive to see, feel and map the current driving mode with the direction of car movement. 
We have included a glass area in the center of our prototype, which can be used like a touch pad for gestural touch input to change the driving mode and could be replaced by a real touch display in future.

Please check SenseDrive_Project_Description.pdf for further details.


Arduino Setup:

We used an Arduino Mega 2560 board connected to our custom-made servo and motor driver board (check picture folder).
Control commands can be issued via serial console (9600baud & newline).

Following commands are implemented:
FL   = Vibrate Front Left
FR   = Vibrate Front Right
ML   = Vibrate Middle Left 
MR   = Vibrate Middle Right
RL   = Vibrate Rear Left        
RR   = Vibrate Rear Right
ALL  = Vibrate  All 
TEST = System Test
SN   = Shift Neutral
SF   = Shift Forward    
SR   = Shift Reverse


PINOUT:
PIN 46: Front Servo
PIN 44: Rear Servo
PIN  2: Vibration Front Left
PIN  3: Vibration Front Right
PIN  4: Vibration Middle Left
PIN  5: Vibration Middle Right
PIN  6: Vibration Rear Left
PIN  7: Vibration Rear Right



